---
layout: post
title:  "Result of the eclipsing nova-like variables study: (ApJ paper)"
date:   2010-06-30 08:32:00 +0100
categories: jekyll update
tag: [winds]
---

Concluding the research project on modelling the mass outflows of two nova-like
variables, which I have carried out at the StScI with Knox Long, we published
our results in a [paper][noebauer2010ads] on ApJ.

The presence of mass outflow from accretion disks in a wide range of
astrophysical systems implies an inherent connection between these two
processes - accretion and mass ejection. Cataclysmic variables, as the nearest
astrophysical systems in which the presence of such disk winds is established,
provide an excellent environment to study and improve our understanding of this
connection and of accretion physics. As a step in this direction, we modeled
the UV spectra of the two eclipsing nova-like variables UX UMa and RW Tri in
order to constrain the ionization structure and the geometry of their winds by
comparing with HST observations. Employing Monte Carlo radiative transfer tool
PYTHON and in combination with parametrized biconical wind structure
prescription, plausible wind models have been found and the important resonance
lines in the emergent spectra have been reproduced. Both wind models exhibit
similar ion distributions and line forming regions. With mass loss rates in the
range of 6% to 8% of the accretion rate, the radiation force should be
dynamically important for driving the wind. However, additional mechanisms,
most plausibly magnetic phenomena, are necessary to explain these mass loss
rates, which are too high for purely line-driven outflows.

- - -

[noebauer2010ads]: http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010ApJ...719.1932N
