---
layout: post
title:  "Type Ia supernovae within dense carbon-oxygen rich envelopes: a model for 'Super-Chandrasekhar' explosions? (MNRAS paper)"
date:   2016-09-14 16:00:00 +0100
tag: [publications, stella, supernovae]
---

The most luminous thermonuclear supernovae (SNe) still constitute puzzles.
Reconciling their intense luminosities with the standard theoretical
interpretation for Type Ia SNe, according to which the light output is
predominantly attributable to the decay of radioactive elements, would require
very high nickel masses, implying ejecta masses beyond the Chandrasekhar mass -
hence their other name, "Super-Chandrasekhar" explosions.

We have investigated one potential scenario for explaining such objects, namely
invoking interaction between ejecta and circumstellar material (CSM). In
particular, we studied the consequences of fairly normal SNe Ia exploding
within compact and dense carbon-oxygen-rich CSM envelopes. Performing sophisticated
radiation hydrodynamical simulations with the code STELLA, we demonstrated that
a number of characteristic features of Super-Chandrasekhar objects can be
reproduced by ejecta-CSM interaction. In particular, the ejecta kinematics seem
to be compatible with observations and we find a good match in the overall shape of the
computed optical light curve and SN 2009dc (a prototypical Super-Chandrasekhar
SNe Ia). Nevertheless, achieving a significant optical luminosity boost is
challenging in our calculations. The entire study is summarized in our [paper][Noebauer2016]
which has just been accepted for publication in MNRAS.

- - - 
[Noebauer2016]: http://mnras.oxfordjournals.org/content/463/3/2972
