---
layout: post
title:  "Early light curves for Type Ia supernova explosion models (MNRAS paper and MPA research highlight)"
date:   2017-06-13 13:40:00 +0100
categories: jekyll update
tag: [publications, stella, supernova]
---

Upcoming high-cadence transient survey programs will produce a wealth of
observational data for Type Ia supernovae. These data sets will contain
numerous events detected very early in their evolution, shortly after
explosion. We have calculated synthetic light curves with the radiation
hydrodynamical approach STELLA for a number of different explosion models,
specifically focussing on these first few days after explosion. Our research
has been [published][Noebauer2017mnras] in Monthly Notices of the Royal
Astronomical Society and is highlighted on the [webpage][Noebauer2017mpa] of
MPA.

With our calculations, we show that overall the early light curve evolution is
similar for most of the investigated models. Characteristic imprints are
induced by radioactive material located close to the surface. However, these
are very similar to the signatures expected from ejecta-CSM or ejecta-companion
interaction. Apart from the pure deflagration explosion models, none of our
synthetic light curves exhibit the commonly assumed power-law rise. We
demonstrate that this can lead to substantial errors in the determination of
the time of explosion. In summary, we illustrate with our calculations that
even with very early data an identification of specific explosion scenarios is
challenging, if only photometric observations are available.

- - - 

[Noebauer2017mnras]: https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article-abstract/472/3/2787/4082243/Early-light-curves-for-Type-Ia-supernova-explosion?redirectedFrom=fulltext
[Noebauer2017mpa]: http://www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/479073/hl201710
