---
layout: post
title:  "OGLE14-073 - a promising pair-instability supernova candidate (MNRAS paper)"
date:   2018-04-16 17:30:00 +0100
categories: jekyll update
tag: [publications, stella, supernova]
---

Continuing the collaboration with Alexandra Kozyreva, we have studied the very
bright Type II supernova OGLE073-14, investigating a possible pair-instability
mechanism. Starting from realistic stellar evolution models for
pair-instability supernovae (PISN), we explored the influence of a number of
properties such as the total mass of radioactive nickel produced, its
distribution in the ejecta and the mixing of hydrogen and identified two
possible PISN models for OGLE073-14. The bolometric and broad-band light curves
we calculated for these models match the observations very well. In addition,
our collaborator Markus Kormer produced details spectral predictions for the
models which we also compared to the observations. Hereby, we were able to
successfully reproduce important observed spectral features. Most importantly,
our models do not seem to suffer from a strong flux suppression in the short
wavelength range which has been previously predicted for PISN. From our
findings we conclude that a PISN origin of OGLE073-14 is possible and that it
is actually one of the most promising candidates for this mechanism. Our
results are summarized in a paper which has just been accepted for publication
in MNRAS. A preprint may be found on the [arxiv][kozyreva2018arxiv].

- - - 

[kozyreva2018arxiv]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.05791
